                      THE HORSE AND THE WOLF

   Once upon a time... a horse was gazing peacefully in a rolling green meadow.
A famished wolf passing by saw the horse and his mouth began to water.
   "That's a fine horse! And will taste good too! He'd make a juicy steak!
Pity he's so big. I don't think I'd manage to bring him down, though you never
know..."
   The wolf approached the horse, which continued to eat the grass. "...maybe,
if I take him by surprise."
   Now quite close, the wolf spoke to the horse, trying to sound as pleasant as
he could.
   "Good day, Mr. Horse, I see you're enjoying a meal. Is the grass good? I
must say you're looking rather pale. Aren't you well?"
   His mouth fool of grass, the horse replied: "Pale? Oh, no, that's my natural
colour. I was born white and grey."
   The wolf pretended not to understand what the horse had said. "Yes, indeed,
very pale. It's just as well your master has given you a holiday in the field,
instead of working."
   "A holiday in the field? But I'm the picture of health!..."
   The wolf was now circling round the horse, trying to find the best point to
attack.
   "I'm a doctor," he went on. "I can treat you. If you tell me where the pain
is. I'm sure I can cure it. Take my advice. Let me examine you!"
   The horse, who was not usually wary of others, became suspicious of the 
wolf's persistent remarks, and thought he had better be on his guard. The wolf
was now very close and carefully biding his time, when the horse said, in 
alarm: "Yes! Now that think of it, I have a sore hind foot. It's been swollen
for ages..."
   Without a moment's thought, the wolf trotted up to the hoof which the horse
had obligingly raised into the air. And when he was certain that the wolf had 
come within range, the horse gave a mighty kick, catching the wolf on the 
jawbone and sending him flying.
   "Would like to examine me again?" The wolf heard the words as he struggled
to his feet with spinning head.
   "No thanks! That's enough for one day" he mumbled, limping away, with no
further thought for horse steaks.

                     THE HORSE AND THE DONKEY

    Once upon a time . . . an old carter kept a horse and a donkey in the same
stable. He was equally fond of both his animals, but as he used the horse to 
pull his trap, he gave it better food and more attention than he did the 
donkey. However, the donkey, knowing he was not so precious as his stablemate,
ate straw instead of corn and hay, without complaining. Even when both animals
carried sacks to market, the donkey's was the heavier load, for the carter did
not want to overwork his noble horse, though he had no such feelings about the
donkey. As time went by, the horse grew more handsome and robust, while the 
donkey became thin and weak. One day, on their way to market, the donkey was 
carrying his usual heavy load, while the horse had only two lightweight sacks 
tied to the saddle.
   "I can't go much further!" moaned the donkey. "I'm much weaker today! I can
hardly stand and unless I can get rid of some of this weight, I won't be able 
to go on. Couldn't you take some of my load?"
   When the horse heard this, he looked the donkey up and down in disdain, for
he considered himself much superior, and said: "Our master gave you the heavy 
load, because he knows that donkeys are beasts of burden. Their loads ought to
be heavier than those of noble horses!"
   So the wretched donkey stumbled on. But after a short distance, he stopped 
again, bleary-eyed, his tongue hanging out. 
   "Please, please listen! If you don't help me, I'll never reach market 
alive." But without even a glance, the horse haughtily replied: "Rubbish! Come
on, you'll manage this time too!" But this time, after a few tottering steps, 
the donkey dropped dead to the ground. The donkey's master, who had lingered
to pick mushrooms, ran up when he saw the animal fall.
   "Poor thing!" he said. "He served me well for so many years. His load must 
have been too heavy."
   Then he turned to the horse: "Come here! You'll have to carry your 
companion's load too now!" And he hoisted the donkey's sacks onto the horse's 
back. 
   "I'd have done better to help the donkey when he was alive," said the horse
to himself. "A little more weight wouldn't have done me any harm. Now, I'm 
frightened of collapsing myself under a double load!" But feeling sorry too
late did nothing to lighten his load.


